And it has begun to record so this is, uh, recording on March 17th,
2015 for the New York Public Library.
Our Stories Project, an oral history of Washington Heights and Inwood. I am with
Aaron Scott in his apartment in Inwood
and we are going to talk.
So, um, I think I said that the first question that we'd start with
would be just a brief history before you came
to Inwood. Just, uh, for orientation purposes.
We'll a very brief history. I'm almost sixty. Okay, well
OK. What started where you were born.
You were born in Chicago. I was born in Chicago. Ah, um, very quickly...okay, I
quickly, OK, born. Grew up, moved around
went to different schools,
Berkley, uh College of Music. Joined the service, jumped out of airplanes.  Whoa!
um, and uh, let's see. Not in that order it was join the service
service and then went to Berkeley. Moved to France. That's a big story. And then, uh
then I came here and voila.
And, how did you make your living?
Music,
Always music. I've been very fortunate.
You know, I'm I suppose I'm rare.
Rare in that sense because I've always done pretty
much what I wanted to do and how I wanted to do musically.
A lot, many people can't say that. I've always
known very, actually since I was four, I've always known that one day
I would play
with great people so. Since I was four I was
pretty much, honing my skills, just you know, being ready,
becoming ready
for that moment. And of course it came. While I
was, uh, in France.
But uh, yeah that's that's pretty much. It.
I say that I'm uh fortunate and rare because
many of us
us are able to know what they want to do and
actually do it
the way that they'd like to do it. As
As I, uh, as I played with my heroes.
and I played with almost all of my heroes. (Wow.) Except I did not, I did
not play with Miles I did not play with uh Joe Zawinul
although he did ask me to play with him.
At the time I was with McCoy and.
you know, I was with McCoy Tyner for
fourteen years, yeah. Wow. Fourteen years. And that's
That's no easy feat, you know. I mean, McCoy has played with
All of my heroes, the best drummers in the world. And I was there fourteen years.
So am I the best drummer in the world? I would say
no. I wouldn't say that I'm one of the best drummers in the
world but I would say I'm pretty good. [Laughs]
No,
not pretty good, I'm very good. (Good!) I would say I'm very good. And we were
talking earlier about me, not talking about myself that much.
I've never, I never really felt good about talking about the things that
I had done. Because I've done them. And everyone else, you know, makes more of a fuss about it than I do.
But, uh, yes I think I've gotten to a point where I can start
to say, you know, I've done some pretty interesting things. And I'm-I'm pleased
with that. And I was fortunate enough to do it the way I wanted to
do it, and that goes back to find not many people being able to make that claim.
And I'm still
still pretty much doing things, uh, the way I'd like
to do it. Even in my sixties.
That's great. Or almost. I'm not there yet. Almost almost sixties, almost sixties.
So, for a
for a good portion of that part of your life, you were based in France
in France. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, France was only a three year.
Oh I beg your pardon. Uh, let's, uh, eighty's, yeah only a three year episode
year episode. Um, oh but, [laughs] OK if we're going to talk about that. Sure.
Um, mmm, well, I, I just
I had just graduated from Berkeley
and moved to--moved to Paris. (Phone dings in distance)
(It's me. I'm sorry, I should've muted that). Oh no, no no that's OK. I moved
to Paris and--and, uh. You know here--here I
was, uh, I didn't speak the language
I was with my wife I didn't speak the language. I didn't know anything about the culture
the culture. No knew one--no, knew no one in
the music community
music community in France, Paris.
So I just kind of dropped out of the sky, and, uhm, we
got there, what – August.
August, August '85, I think,
so August through
December, um, my wife's uh parents. Well. Well. OK.
Was a was a, an author and another was a painter. They were both known.
And I would help my, my wife's father uh, in his studio.
his studio. I would paint
his canvases white for him and he would give me something. You know it wasn't very easy.
August through December. But they were
just, the French government had just approved the creation
of what they called the National Orchestra of Jazz and
it was a group for France and for French musicians
and, to be run by the
French government and everything.
Well, I, let's see, I played
maybe two or three times while I was there. But nothing,
just you know. Jam sessions a mix of. Um, one of those jam
sessions I have to play with two of the members who were selected to be in that group. And the third time
third time I went--or the second time I went uh, to see
to see the director, the music director, perform. And
I was told that I should speak with him but I didn't get a chance to speak with him, I just gave him a note.
A quick, you know, "Hi my name is Aaron Scott" and my phone number, a few people that I played with, you know,
You know.
I tried to put the bigger names in, you know. (Sure) And uh, so
And uh, so that was it. And as--as the
As the money started to run out I'm thinking, you know, maybe it's time to go home. [Laughs] But
But he called, the director, the music director called, and
He told me that he would like me to be a part of this group and I, I thought it
I thought it was a prank call, completely. You know, I mean, he didn't know anything about
anything about me, this is France
is France. For French musicians, you know.
And um, I put him off. I--I just--I just--This can't be serious, [laughs] you know
You know it's time to go home. But um, you
know my wife kept prodding and I said OK OK OK. So I called.
And we met, and sure enough, he wanted me in. Now--now
Now, now that was a problem,
because uh, I'm not
French, I'm American
I'm American. I'm black. I know.
And uh, here I'm going to be, you know, one of the chosen ones of
this French National Orchestra of Jazz.
of Jazz. You could not imagine the mess it caused in Paris. (Really?)
Oh, the press, it was awful [Barry laughs], horrible.
You know, the older guard just trashed me completely. Well, I
mean who, I, they hadn't heard anything about me, nothing. They just
knew. You know, um, at one of the meetings, when it was finally official
official and all the members who were selected had a meet
a meeting with the media and I was there and everything, and you know, I was pulled aside
in one of the, I think BBC or something that had someone on the
and asked me a few questions. They didn't even have who I play with right, but I--I completely
I completely you know I corrected them.
But uh, it was a big mess, even [laughs] months--months after
Months after
having performed with this group. Um
And you know we were traveling around France on tour
tour, Africa and things like this. But
But, this must have been three or four months into it. It was
a year contract. Three or four months into it, and we're playing somewhere.
And the next day I read the review. And the
guy, you know, he talks about the--the band, it was a big band basically
and basically, he talks about the band and he's, you know, giving praise and blah blah blah
and blah blah blah blah blah. And he talks
talks about the drama. And I'm saying "Oh, this is interesting," so he's just
"Oh, the drama was so good and blah blah blah blah blah" and he didn't
He didn't name
didn't name me, he named the guy who was supposed to do it in the beginning who refused to do
because he didn't want
to travel. (Laughs) (Claps) So basically, I'm even wondering if
the guy even went to
the concert. [Both laugh.]
It's funny, but, but it took awhile. It took, you know, it took about, I don't know, a year.
don't know, a year, for them to accept me. And we...I, I,
I had a smaller group, and then, you know, I was in. I just
I just played with everyone in France.
And that's where I met McCoy, basically. It took – let's see.
I was there when I, when I, when I was working with this big band
big band
band, um, McCoy was invited to play on one of the
of the pieces. We were in, where was it, oh Vienne, Vienne
in France. Beautiful, old
Roman Coliseum. Beautiful beautiful beautiful.
beautiful. Anyway, so we had this arrangement of one of
McCoy's pieces and, and you know I played. Well, we all played
but at one point
point, uh, you know. He and I were kind of just playing together, and that
And that was kind of the beginning, and then, you know, one of the groups that I played with,
a trio. With
With ?Moct Cray and ?Michelle Venita
?Venita. Um, we were playing a festival somewhere. McCoy was playing afterwards
after us. And they were late. You know, I was thinking well that would be great. You know, McCoy could hear me,
You know hear me, I could talk to him, because I always wanted to play with
to play with McCoy.
And well he didn't, he didn't. They were late, like I said. They, you know, they traveled, which
Which is a mess. Travel is really difficult. Yeah, people think being on the road is all glory. They don't
They don't have a clue what they're talking about. No idea [chuckles] whatsoever [chuckles]. It is hard
It is hard work being on the road, hard work. If you're out
there, you know, six weeks to two months. And
you're just moving from city to city, you're jumping on planes, and once you get there
you get there you might have an hour and a half ride, you might have a
layover for an hour and a half in some godforsaken airport waiting for
the next -- it's not easy. And then, you get there. You have a sound check. You have
You have a couple of minutes to eat. You
eat. You have to go get dressed. Then you go back to the vineyard, you play. And then you just sit because
just si t[laughs] because you're so exhausted. And then, you know,
you repack. You get ready to leave, and then... [Interviewer: "So what made it worth it?"]
That's what I love to do. Are you kidding me? And it's not, you know – I'll get
back to the story, but it's not, uh
not, uh [sighs]. Music
Music. It's, it's, it's, it's a very important thing. It's not just me performing. I really don't
I really don't care if people like me or not, I really don't care
I really don't care. But I do know that what I
What I do can affect people
Can affect people positive...positively or negatively, and most positively
often positively. I know that. Um, and that's why I play. I don't play
I don't play for me, I don't.
don't. I don't play for, for the glory or for the recognition. I
really don't. I play to make people feel good, to help them.
You know, when you, regardless if there are twenty people
or
four thousand people. You know, you, you, you can see they
They come in, especially in clubs where it's more intimate, they come in. You know, they're distracted or whatever
distracted or whatever. They come to forget, yhey come to go somewhere, to be transported
somewhere to, to enjoy, to relax, you know, [Interviewer: "yeah"] and if you can do that
that, then when you've done your job. It's
not "Look how good I am," you know, "Look at me, I am so
I am so handsome. I'm such a handsome man" [Laughter]
man" [Laughter]. It's not that at all. It has nothing to do with that
it. You know, it's not about me at all – but to get back to the story. OK,
so, so, so.
Where was I? But anyway. Anyway.
McCoy, right.
[Barry] uh, uh- [Aaron] right, right [Barry] being on the road- [Aaron] so, so- [Barry] yeah
Yeah. We play before Macoy he was late and.
I did get a chance to. It was the drummer's birthday, Lewis says it was his birthday.
So we hung out on the Internet that was so much fun, oh, it was so much fun
Lewis-
Once you get to know some of your heroes it can be either a joy or a pain in the
in the
in the butt [chuckles] because not all of your heroes are really nice people
You know. But the majority of them are and
the ones that are really, really worth admiring
are the quiet ones, not the noisy ones.
The noisy ones, you know, they uh-
they, they have issues
The quiet ones have nothing to prove.
[Barry]Yeah. [Aaron]You know.
And I pretty much stayed with the quiet ones [chuckles]. I didn't
I didn't like to be with the noisy ones too much 'cause that's, you know, I'm - I'm not a noisy
noisy person. [Barry]No, I-I didn't get that impression. [Aaron] You know, no, I-I stay with the quiet ones
But uh, at one point I-I-I think
I
I'm out of sequence, but McCoy came to
Paris with the
the best musicians in the world, you know
between shows I walked right up to him and said "you know, McCoy, this event had been
this event after we played a little bit but that, that uh-
French national thing. And, uh after we'd uh-I spent
the evening with uh - his drummer at the time, Lewis Hayes
walked right up to McCoy, I said "You know McCoy,
I would like to play with you- I'd like to work with you."
You know, th-there's a ph-a-phrase in-in France, I'm gonna say it
because it's a little gross but
basically, you know, they're here.
here [laughs]. You know, instead of down, they're here, you know, and that's where I was
And I walked right up to him and you know, yeah, you know McCoy [laughs]
[laughs]
I'd like to work with you in- you know, um-
people [Barry]I may have to annotate that for the listeners. [Aaron]oh- [hearty laughter]
No, but uh- you know people would come to town um
[?] would come to town and I'd work with him, I mean, you know, so word had
gotten to McCoy anyway, you know, that there was this guy in France and ba ba ba ba ba. Well, um, it took
that took a little while
but uh, McCoy gave me a call, you know you get
you get that [Barry that's great, yeah] that call. And it's like seriously, really, damn-[laughter]
[laughter] And it was very nice because
uh- ok, so I flew to London. And it was just
McCoy and I in the studio we played for
I guess about an hour and a half. Something like that
in fact I was playing with someone and-and now that I remember - the night before in Leone
Leone, in the middle of France, and I flew from Leone to uh-
You know, OK, anyway um- you know, It was like, that-that was the audition
and it was done.
And then that's it- no more to talk about that. I mean um, the first
first year we played a bunch. The next fourteen, thirteen years
we played a bunch more [laughter]
Now- [Barry]but that was, that was all around the world
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, of course
I mean, no, you know, like I said I don't like
talk about these things but, you know I played in the greatest
halls in the-in the world, I have
of two thousands, you know, and I.
play two tens, [laughter] like, you know, I mean, I'm not gonna say it was
it was always, you know, thousands and thousands, but, you know, and, um, I'd like.
the intimate setting and I also like the large
setting, um, outdoor, I like playing outdoors because
then you can - I try to play to the-the person in the back of the room, however
far that is so-you know [laughter] quarter of a mile away
I want to try to play to them, you know, but um
Yeah
That was, that was pretty much what I, what I did, you know.
Now how does, how does this relate to Inwood? OK, so I've been living in Inwood these years
years uh, since
what did I say before? 1990 [Barry] yeah. [Aaron] 1990 [Barry] yeah. [Aaron] Right
RIGHT RIGHT RIGHT RIGHT. RIGHT. 1990 I moved to Inwood uh, Riverside and.
? um, yes? [Barry]What-what decided
you on Inwood at that point?
Sublet apartment. [Barry] The availability of the apartment. [Aaron] Right
That was it. [Barry]Yeah. [Aaron]You know, I-I'd been, you know I-I
Barry, I tried to commute from Paris for you-
[Laughter]
[Laughter] [Barry]Yeah that wouldn't have worked well [Laughter]
I did, you know
you know I really did for a year I was on the plane with [?]. Go back to France
yeah, um, but um, it was a bit much
and, and uh- you know I decided to OK, well I guess it's time to
come back stateside... But uh,
oh!
oh, are you kidding me- the food, the culture, I mean everything, every- na
it's interesting
now I might tread some touchy waters here but, um
you know uh, the quality
of life, for example, um...the
awareness
of a population, politically or whatever
I mean, I realized when I was in France, you know, they have uh
uh- their political system is
completely left
to completely right and everything in between.
We just have, like, right and more right. That's all we have here. [Barry: yeah]
you know, but, everything in between
completely left to completely right. And I was fascinated because, you know
It, it, I- I had never known anything like that
and everyone in
the street understood what was going on politically. It was none of this, uh,
You know someone would say something on television and you go "oh. Since it's on television
it must be true." [laughter] you know
You knwow like it's done over here. Yeah.
But
I mean not. Not just that but many many many other things that you just don't
find many many other things. Now yes they have
problems every. Less. There are people. You have problems. Yeah.
You know. But they were
just so many revelations.
The Mona Lisa. For
example. Oh that. That hurt the most the Mona Lisa that would that would
hurt the most. Because you know. I'd love all kinds of love
or any type of art I really love. Well.
I'll have to clarify that some day
I'm sure. I
But you know. So you. You're going through your studies and you're
looking at August. Fabulous work by having people. You know. And you finally get a chance
to see
it right in front of you thinks. No nonsense you know.
Here it is depth and.
You know
to have this great anticipation because you're
going to see this country. Working there signs Mona Lisa arrows you
know how. Then it takes about. I don't know
some minutes several minutes to get there. You finally get it is a crowd of thirty people or
so yeah. And you have to review way to the front
and I get there. And I'm
like wait wait. It was
like only this big. And I've always thought it was this huge seven little bit
you know. Resisted like and. Wow.
I
think
it's
also there you go. Reality is you know better than fiction I guess. At
least straighten you out. But how does this you really lead to him with OK
so my team and yes.
Pretty
much I was still and it out. You know. We were busy
for
a Navman and a half months a year. Yeah. So I was in and I don't.
When I moved here to protest. He sed.
That's when I recognized Mr Meadows and the garden and everything and
that's when I started to become involved in but.
You
don't mind if I don't talk about awards and stuff like that you talk about what you want to talk about.
I don't have to talk about it but.
I
found it just so cool that. There was a person like Mr Ramos. In
the neighborhood. Now. Especially for me because they're not that many black men.
Of his
stature. In the neighborhood. Yeah I can say.
So it was kind of personal because we had that I
think with what if the disk. Every city area. I mean we could
share things because we had a common culture. I mean if and if it had.
It's funny
but. So. So I see.
You know I've always been the baby.
And it didn't. Most of
the settings where there are people I'm always the youngest.
Even the groups that I played of I was the youngest mostly.
Except for the French bad because we're all about the same
age. The National Orchestra. Jest
of. So
it was just normal for me to see
him. And for heat for him to see maybe. Because I
that older younger relationship was easy for me. Yeah. It was very
easy and. He was doing such incredible things I had. And
that the longer I knew him the more Mason became by him
because I mean people don't think about if I'm pointing over here
I'm pointing to outside now. To the Glad to the no to the park. To talk
to the particles of the poor people. You know they look at
Bruce's garden may think that's the crowning achievement of all of his
work. Forty five years. You know. Plus he's been
doing this. That's like half of his life half of the man's life he's
been beautifying. The neighborhood. I mean think of what he's done.
You know. I mean at the time when he came there were gangs here. You know. Of.
He
convinced the gangs to help. He convince the gangs to.
You know do better with this their lives. You know
he the and other
other civic groups. Combined are responsible for.
Why I should park looks the way it does today. You know.
He is responsible for the Green Streets. He and his wife.
Of course I was possible for cleaning up the Bruce's garden. I mean Bruce's garden was
probably or the area Briscoe's probably the
worst of the.
Negligence. Because the neighborhood. Sort of pitched
in and everything they pitched it everything he was a dump.
It
was adopted was a dump Yeah. But the park was also neglected.
Because the gangs just trashed it so hard. The you know they would put him. They
would replace the benches that would burn down and they would be burned out again so the.
Park surprisingly like they don't know what to do with this. But Mr knows another.
You know like my Civic communities got together and it was.
We have what we have now.
And there are many more things many many more things. Not much of
this is being talked about. If any. They talk about
Bruce's garden.
Which is beautiful don't get me wrong right. If you proof of God is beautiful. But there's
so much more to it and it all of I should
park. The memorial garden the moral slope on the site the gang culture eat.
The people you know I want to point we had a chance in flipping in the underbrush.
On the Broadway. Quarter. You know
I mean it's
just not being talked
about and. I find that a bit disturbing. I hope it's not just because
he's black. You know. I find it disturbing.
Because some other groups of coming. In the
meanwhile that
it's you know they haven't spent very much time. And everyone talks about what
they do. But it doesn't even
pale to the scope of what Mr Milosevic I mean stand.
You know that test. That's a little disappointing I have to say. I guess
it's just me. He just says where we are.
But anyway how does that relate to me
I. You know
I've always loved.
Nature that. I mean I grew up in a city but you could plug
me anywhere. Basically. Even a desert. If you'd
given the proper equipment. I don't just want to turn to
people.
But you know I don't I
could be in the desert for little while or or the mountains or anywhere.
I just enjoy nature. I enjoy the planet. I love the place.
You know this is the only home I know.
Yeah. Now. The
only home I know. And if you know
it's it's too bad it's really too bad that most
of us don't get to travel and see different things to see how different.
People live in different areas of the planet.
You know it's it's really too bad because it's such a such a learning experience.
It really is.
Because yes I've been called on over the world. I mean I haven't played everywhere. I mean
it's a big planet. That I've I've covered quite a bit.
And unfortunately like. You know as as I said before. When you're out
there for
six weeks a month. You don't have a lot of time
to stop and look around. So what do you do when
you get to airports. You observe other people you know. People walk
differently in different parts of the world. You know that they hold themselves differently they carry
themselves
differently. And the foods and you know everything.
And when you do have a time to stop and relax for a few days. Then sure
you just take it all in but. But travel. It's just indispensable.
And it's unfortunate that more people thought OK. Back to the story.
So
as of. As my fourteen year tenure. Came to a close.
Because I started working. I start. Music program
in Harlem. At a school a public school. It was very it was going
very very well. I've
always said I've always
been able to organize and facilitate always always always.
I've never really focused on those skills.
They just sort of came out. When I you know I thought of something and like
putting this music school together. Or this this music program together just for the place
because I saw clearly what needed to be done in did the things that needed to be done and.
If I saw a problem I try to find a solution. You know. Very simple. So that's
how I approach things. If it's. I mean I'm looking at something.
If there's a problem for the solution. And then keep going. You know. And
by all
means stay the course. Stay the course.
You know. And that comes from my.
My ability to focus because as I told you since I was four I
do what I want to do. But that meant what I practiced. I really really
practiced. I'm jumping around a bit I'll get back to it.
But when I was in the service for example. I
was practice so much. The guys would throw me out of
the the
building. They take that stuff down the
street so I take my drug good on the street.
You still do.
I
say oh you know I mean you you you just. You really become
consumed by by your involvement.
Yeah. And I've always been like that.
And probably will until I begin losing it. You know. But.
So what I have protests something it's pretty complete. I mean I put everything in.
And it's never about me.
You know that's why
I don't like talking about my you know.
Accomplishments of the things that I've done it's not about me. You know. I lived it. And
I can look back and figured I was really nice. I had a great time. And I
did. I really did. Well that's great you know if I did
it but you know. OK.
But someone else talk about. It's not important because there's something else
that I you know. Would rather talk about or focus on. You know. No.
You know. Other things coming at the same time.
So the focus yes when you know when I'm in practice or
composed of in the beginning when I can possibly.
He was a. Again. While I was in
the service
I lived in I went away from the base because I didn't want to do the army
thing yet twenty four hour sort of drive an hour and a half to and from.
You know. So that means a formation at six I was up at four. Well. Hey.
I
meant.
I did not want to do the everything. You know twenty four hours. But. So I was
staying in Chapel Hill and working on the piece there was
a
piano in the permit which was attached. Attached
to another hole. We have to spread the news.
And I was trying to work out. Section.
And when you get so focused. Everything blocks up everything is gone. I don't see
anything I'm just really you know.
Doing it and I'm just trying to work it out. And I
hear what
you
and I live up surprise you know. Because I had no idea how long I've
been doing it you know I guess
it was like listening to those two notes of Beethoven Beethoven trying
to figure out what to do with or I was you know.
I was so I bought a beta of that but trying to say it
because what a sweet. But the
focus. The focus it. It really has helped me through my life
and no.
After when I was at the school in Harlem. I became ill and that kind of not to be
done for several in the previous almost eight
years. But I'm slowly. Still slowly. Bouncing back.
But my focus know. Is on the
curtain. And if
it wasn't my choice. I very high. When I
saw that. You know it.
When I saw what was happening. It was just thinking.
You know I I really don't want to do this. I would I
would lean on the garden center at night and look into it
just so please don't give me this I don't want it because it's huge it's
huge it's. You know it's there been defining
moments in my life in everyone's life you have them.
But things are so huge you just have to
really. Sit back and fill bored.
I can do this. This is. This is too big for me. You know.
But some of the very was said to me.
She
said. A job is only as big as you
are now.
So what is your role in the garden. What's my row.
Yes. Oh my.
What is my
rule is that the same I don't know
Mr
REYNOLDS. Well. I mean in in brass tacks term.
What. What do you have to
do with a garden.
Everything. No I am not. I cannot
say I have been to Mr Mills because you can't replace
someone like that and I would never never.
You know. Hint that I have the new system.
Not because he's you know he's really
exceptional. Maybe one day I might be very exceptional.
Maybe one day we'll see.
But my role in
the garden is to of.
Do the best I
can
to keep this a little
direction and and legacy. Going forward. The best
I
can. And that involves organizing people.
Oh yeah. Of course. I
mean. There's a lot of I'm not saying.
But the
garden is only twenty percent of what needs to be done.
And that is a whole lot of work over there across the street that. It's
not growing. You know. Project you're always in the
garden. But that's only twenty percent. And people don't
realize you know. So
all whole nother world a whole other ballgame going
on that. Also needs to be addressed. If it's going to be done properly.
What are some of the things people don't understand about the
garden. Well the first
of mistake. Is that it's always closed.
Now that there are there may be something to that. The fact that I
know personally.
The past year and a half.
The curtain was mostly open all the time. Now. If you
were walking to work. And then walking home. You might see
the
gate closed. Because you're leaving before. Seven min.
You coming home after fuck. Friend. You know but if you are around during the
day. And you still make the claim that would not be an
artist claim to make. Not by a longshot. The Guard has
been open.
And this year. It is a hopefully who will go along those
lines as well. Last
year there were a lot of events that took place and I don't.
And there's always been events in the garden.
But
how can I say the atmosphere.
Or the conditions that created the
garden. No longer exist.
The conditions that created the good well. It's no longer a dump. They're no longer gangs.
You know destroying everything. There's a fence around the garden which protects it
because in fact the fence was put up by the Parks Department of the.
The and chain link fence was put
up. Oh it could be.
Be searched but Iraqi government should my stuff and find it.
Take me about ten minutes though. But I
don't know was put up by the parks. The parks permit because you know at
the time they felt that the work needed to be protected. Breakers without
the fence.
You know the dogs were going in the kids were running to the far flower beds you
know and. Bruce and Mr Reynolds and members
that were helping. You know they were really trying to do good work. There used to
be a gardener. Assigned to us you
park who eventually left because the gang would
just continuously trash is work. I
mean yeah. Who doesn't just say it's not worth it after a while yet you
know. But OK so the fence went
up
and and seen the conditions they don't exist. So the fence would up.
What else.
Well
now we have water. Again. I guess in the sixty's there was water.
And the sixty's was when the parks
trashed. So during the. The rehabilitation of Asian park.
You know the contractors came in
and redesigned the park. But they failed to use. Water.
You
know. So now. The what's back. After thirty years you how to
use something like that but OK heredity. And it's a great length. I mean you kidding me. Of course it's
a great thing I had. You my you may have known there was a petition.
Put up.
Of concerning the water project I said.
But it was not against the water project it was just how the
water project would go through the garden in Honestly honestly honestly. You know
I I've you know I understand this is Parks property. I
understand it. But there's a lot of great work that's been going
on for half a century.
Three work. You know.
Good work. Yeah. Really really good work for the community.
It's statically it's changed the face of the neighborhood. Absolutes change the face of.
You know how people relate to each other you know. I mean it's not just
visual but it's social it's everything. You
know. So it's not that I feel like
or or I see you ask me what's my role so it would be me.
It's not like I feel like I own that property or
I'm not it's ridiculous. It's parks property I just and I completely. But the work
that's going on is is worth
preserving. And how is that endangered right now.
Oh well. The water project. So can the fence right. Which was good
because you know. You can't. There's a there's a rock shelf. Along the from the garden
the eastern face.
Just like there was that the building they made. That burned down onto a seventh
and Broadway. When they started digging sort of rocks Rice out of what they had to go to
through was the same along the front the Eastern front of the
garden and that just would have been a mess it would be ruined the garden would have been more.
I'd say of a third. Third of the garden. Would be in ruins
for two two years.
Well. OK So that novel was
one that was one that was one. But there's also.
There's also talk which is. You know it's been published by the parks apartment that they would like to
take down the fence.
And you know that's just not a good idea because the. The
work that being done would be ruined everything would be trashed
within two months. To it would it would you wouldn't take very long at
all you know what's needed is a. You know the
continuation of the wrought iron fence. That's what you really needed. There's
the Parks Department say why they want the fence to come down.
Well there was there was a. They wanted
to make it like Strawberry Fields and
in Central Park. You know. More accessible. More acceptable but.
But you know I mean. Well there are plenty
of gardens that are gated in
the city. You know why single this one out. You
know it. And this is probably no I have to say.
Gravity park is his family fabulous and there are other.
Rose garden is in the Rose Garden in Central Park and. Another fabulous gardens
but this is a very very very unique garden. Sure it's
very unique. And it's it's worth showcasing
not destroying.
You know. And taking the fence down. You would be destroyed.
What's my
role of protector seems part of What's my
role of. Yes. What's my role as I
said to the best I can to keep Mr REYNOLDS. Legacy going
for using all things that are available to
be legal and without. You know I'm a
crazy.
But. So that's that's where we are and the. The direction.
Mr Mills loves the direction the disco and. You know you. Couple years
ago he had a problem with the direction but he loves the direction it's going
in now. You know and he and I work very closely. We've been working
very closely
for the past two years now. You know.
Very very closely I do nothing without his approval. You know.
Or at least is important.
You know I defer to him because it. There is
something to to. You know.
That's something that you don't have that much in the older cultures.
The older. As in the
cities
of of back of of of.
I
you know there's there's a reason that the older people are
respected and
revered that reason doesn't exist in this
culture or. You know the.
I don't know I'm not going to start a cultural war so I'll just leave it there.
But you know. The elders are not reviewed here. They're stuck in
nursing homes and drugged. You know. The important ones.
The fortunate ones are at home.
DRUG.
That's I'm sorry I'm sorry sir but but that's not that's
really sad. That's really sad. I mean. Here's a man.
Mr REYNOLDS.
You know he became ill. Thousand and eleven two thousand tend to be
like that the end of two thousand two
hundred people were so quick to write him off. You know.
He had dementia. Brother the above
about. I mean if these things were true. Four years later. You know.
He's going to stay as well he's my dad one. Of course
but hell I want to be like that in ninety one. You know.
Have you heard the. You know history demanded here. Because he was quite cultured.
You know it's
it's it's just that. You know. Here look you look at television.
There on the fashion and everything is is geared toward the young
and all the cars and everything. And what's geared toward us. Pills.
Yeah.
We get them to with those meds. And if you listen very quickly because side effects
you don't.
OK.
OK Enough enough. During
But no I I defer to him
because I respect his wisdom. And he is brilliant.
Don't tell the full.
He's brilliant. Which only comes across and. And I I
am trying to get as much of that as I can while a
Q.
so has. So in would has been a good place for you to
life with my family
my children my children grew up here.
They. You know this is a. This is an interesting little
corner especially where we are now. You're on the Hill. No one comes up here
unless you live here. If you stay on the Hill. If you
want crazy you just go down
the hill.
No mam and it's not that crazy is only a W. It's the rest of
the island is what
I mean to say it sure you know. I mean if you want you know. Excitement you
just you know. Go down the hill. But when you're up here.
Use is. You sit in the garden any time of the day. And all you hear a birds
in airplanes.
That's it all day. Yep that's it all day. If I mean
who knows who goes into the. The the. The woods of
of in what who
park. But when you go back
there. You just your birds you don't even hear the airplanes. Because the trees.
You
know. I mean that's how
how wonderful the series is. And it needs to
be maintained a minute and was are preserved. Just like
this and I. I gather you think it's fairly unique in New York.
Oh there it's. It doesn't even seem like New York. I mean we're on the island
of Manhattan and. You know people come up.
They
visit. As though they're going
to different cities. You know in a couple of years. It's it's a.
I'm sure developers on this. I'm sure they do. And mean you
know this is about making money
for example. But if a kid the. If you could be preserved
as long as possible. For those of us who are
here and those of us who are here after
you're here and sort of so forth. I think that would be a great thing.
I think would be a great. So how was it raising a family here in
England.
Dramatic Pause. I. I've
no idea. It's only a post because
of the education. OK. School system appears. Horrible.
So we you
know. Is it may have become more difficult for parents
to take the children. For the day of the island.
You know we have to find a school and we finally
we we did pretty
well with the two that occasionally
but living in the neighborhood. This is what their backyard.
Big backyard here. Of it's quiet. There's no through traffic.
You get the occasional boom box or or
car radio. On the cul de sac
but. But pretty much as I said you know. The next you live
here you know come up here. Yeah. And I mean the
the children have done very well you know. We at
the very well.
I'd. I was not here. During during the.
The Cultural on the rest.
So I didn't experience the same thing as Mr Reynolds family
experience
of. And see that's the other thing I respect him so
much
because he is basically a trailblazer for me.
I would not have been able to do the things that I've done. In my
lifetime and have not been for him because he's a performance well.
Yes or other people like him.
It's just very simple. I would not have been able to do those things. And I understand
very clearly. And I appreciate it.
Period so he is an elder in. In the old fashioned sense of that darling. Most
of that for me. Yeah. For me. But now it's like what you're saying is also for the
community as a whole. Well. Well. Of whether they're you know what or
not if. If you consider this. The
village of. I would say yes. You
know of the tribal thing
would.
Or at least the tribal. You know the. The Hill area. You
know of many of you will not be. Will not
probably not being like being referred to as part of a trial. I get that but.
Yes. I mean there. It's. It's really unfortunate you always of
those those pockets of malcontents. You know. Always
always always and. I understand you know
I my
father took me on those demonstrations in Chicago
with Dr King. You know I've seen. Really vicious
nasty things.
Directed directly to admit. Yeah. I've seen the. The worst
of racism I've seen in the standard. Yeah. But.
But getting past that. I mean.
Will
you have people around
you that. Really
assist in your development in your evolution. Because we wrote.
Constantly evolving. Of free for the better of it
and of ways. Some of us get stuck.
But when they're those around us. That.
Improve your
chances. They should be listened
to
the issue be listened.
So how do you see the future of
anyone.
With that be with the flying automobiles or not.
The you
mean short term or long term well. I'll let you interpret it isn't a way
we
want. You know the future needs you give me you throw me a ball an
alternative spend it till I can find an answer.
Or O.T.B. twenty different.
Well
it's interesting. It's interesting. I would hope.
I would hope
that. Those who live
here in this area.
Become or are constantly
involved in protecting their.
I would hope that that would happen. It's not happening right now.
You have a lot of. You know like I said. There are always welcome to.
And there are those who think your vision sucks. You know that their vision is much
better. But you have to let the work speak for itself.
If your work is bad then your vision is that if the work is
good in the vision must be good and. It's that simple.
It's really that simple. If.
If the community of holds fast
and sticks together.
You know. Two to keep their community.
A certain way then there should be no problem. To keep it
that otherwise it'll just become another
neighborhood. With foreign cars and and
you know it will probably be a through street. The to that
article the second make it through. Through Broadway so you know. Easier access
and the buildings will get taller all of these will be torn down. Because a to hold them.
You know you don't lose that. That intimacy.
So I guess. When I hear you saying is that the tribe of Inwood It's
to understand better understand it's not better as an orchestra.
Well that would help. The infighting should stop. But
you know. That's not going
to happen.
I. His log is there are people
there will be infighting. You know. But. But there should be a common.
A common goal to common ground at least.
You know.
And you think we're lacking. Right now. And that
at the moment I would say yes. Given given any situation.
Or any proposal you'll probably have a dozen or
so rather than two or
three
and. Do you see a force that can change that.
While Perry.
I didn't say I was going to do you think.
Oh goodness. Oh yeah well. We can be done with everyone I meet.
Because I thought a couple of minutes ago is a good place to stay.
Oh. Mug of. What was what well question. The politicians do it.
Well.
Well I guess my question to been in general for you to look
ahead with respect to what and.
And what you see and. I gather from what you've said
that you see different possibilities depending
on which impulses in the community prevail.
And I guess. I want to know if you have any idea
of how one impulse might prevail over another. What
the forces are might determine
that one
one zero zero zero zero another team that
the in post part. I will say
that
this. This area. As a bright future could be beautiful it could
remain beautiful it. The possibilities are endless. I can say that.
With with the proper foundation. As a community.
The possibilities are in this.
I mean it's already natural beauty when beautiful we have such a great resource here.
That should be admired and destroyed.
It should be a
place that neighborhood. Not just you know just being on my.
Involvement and. You know in the soil. But I mean
the neighborhood. Can always
retain its intimacy and beauty.
Only if there's a collective push to do
so otherwise forces will come in and munch away.
And they'll be nothing left.
OK. I'll say that you know that is that. That's that's fine that's a good thing to say here.
So this is an oral history project and. It is my
hope that it's a resource such that fifty years ago. For years
from now. Historians or people who are interested. Will be listening to
these Reporter years
from know the one hundred ten.
Of this it. Arbitrary figure out
of so I've given that as a as a a final note. What.
What about in would should someone. Understand. Fifty years from now.
Talk.
I let the spokes person
for inward.
Ice. We've got lots of people. Oh and hearings that's quite a lease.
So it can. It can be just your perspective on that
question.
Can I take it from a different direction. Sure. All right. You've got friends around
the
country and. What do you tell them about England. They don't know and what do you tell them about it.
Oh it's better than mobs apart. You know I mean there
are things you do. And the. Well we are still lacking
in in. You know all of the different
kitchen that can come in you know so we don't have to go down the. We
can stay up here.
But it's.
It's in what is is is exactly as it is
it's in what is in nature it's
a part of the island that is unlike any other part of the island and.
I mean we have our salt marsh we have a beach. A little tiny beach sand.
He didn't you
know it's it's it's remarkable this area.
And if you coming to New York. Yes go
see the Statue of Liberty. We'll
see you know. The entire State Building
as close in time square. But. Come see us as well.
If you want to get out of the cement and glass and steel.
Well that sounds like a good place to end the conversation. So this is been very
solo talking to Aaron Scott. It's March 17th 2015.
And this is a recording for the Bridging Our Stories Oral History
of Washington Heights and Inwood project of The New York Public Library. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Barry.